happy birthday to you happy birthday
it's a [ __ ] Hitler it was only in the
year 2016 that a valiant briefly became
world famous here on YouTube a valiant
was a political extremists seemingly a
ranting lunatic with her sincerely or
insincerely here on YouTube and she had
videos reaching 5 million 10 million 20
million people or more don't you hate
those lazy [ __ ] who are never
satisfied even after they are given
reparation nope I really can't say I do
so as many of you guys know a few days
ago we found a very unique youtuber and
that youtuber went by the name of availa
on she was racist and was literally
being promoted by the [ __ ] KKK not a
joke do you despise the Jews as much as
I do and for millions of people those
videos by that fringe lunatic figure
here on YouTube that was the context in
which for the first time they heard the
political term alt-right a lot of people
today even critics of the old right
forget just how extreme the meaning of
the term already was back in 2016 when a
lot of people in the mainstream press
even in the mainstream youtube viewing
audience were encountering the word for
the first time coming out of the mouth
of haveli on another lunatic fringe
political figure who came to prominence
at that time was Brian Rua how can I
tell some anecdotes about him in this
video because I wants to talk to the guy
I also want to reflect a little bit on
how the erasure of political extremism
from YouTube has changed both political
reality and the perception of these
people and how we can cope with
extremism and political problems just
googling around now I see unsurprisingly
that most of Brian ruas videos here on
YouTube have been deleted valiance
videos long long time ago all of them
were deleted and she repeatedly tried to
start new YouTube channels and
were also shut down completely
understandable but the result is in her
case the only videos that remain up are
actually some comedians making fun of
her in a sense that's important it's
important that we have the echo of what
happened historically at least we have
the critique of her the comedian is
ridiculing her those two under the
current guidelines you tube there at
least demonetised they might well be
deleted in the fullness of time here on
youtube if you criticize someone for
being racist that is treated as
tantamount to being racist yourself I've
had to deal with this and I guess I
should pause here and put in a
disclaimer ethnically I'm Jewish I'm not
a member of the Jewish faith
I mean politically right now if I had to
choose between voting for Bernie Sanders
and voting for Donald Trump I would vote
for Bernie Sanders within a European
political context I think I'd be a
pragmatist near the center but you know
politically I have absolutely no
sympathy with the old right or far right
people I especially have no sympathy
with these of these figures and it's
strange that I think people including
critics of the all right
they now tend to remember the old right
as if it went been more moderate all
along whereas in fact it was much more
extreme but most of the evidence of that
extremism even from us recently as 2016
has been deleted it's just literally
been erased from the Internet and the
members the outright themselves had to
adapt by using code words and indirect
forms of expression so this doesn't just
change the perception of the problem it
changes the problem itself so what I saw
today in googling around for Brian Rula
is that there's almost no trace of just
what an extremist he was he does have a
current YouTube channel or any trace of
his history as a neo-nazi and as Hitler
sephora's is gone and I see a few
websites and a few other YouTube
channels trying to warn people look this
guy Brian Rua is going
giving lectures he's doing this and that
as a political activist he's still
trying to be a spokesperson for Buddhism
he's still presenting himself as an
expert on Buddhism it's a religion um
but you need to be aware there's this
other side there's this darker side to
his character there's this darker side
to what he represents and advocates for
but looking around YouTube today or even
google searching the whole Internet
today you're not gonna find it
so look obviously I mean what these
people represent politically is terrible
but by taking away their ability to
state their terrible views honestly and
openly what have we done we've created
this really really strange difficult
inextricable puzzle where people can't
really criticize Brian brewer for what
he is
they can't criticize Valiant for what
she is they can't show clips of these
people seeing what they really say you
know you'll be censored yourself if you
do this and in a weird way in Brian ruas
case the result is that he gets to carry
on with impunity he now gets to present
himself to the world as some kind of
respectable scholar of Buddhism which he
is not or as a lay preacher lay disciple
of the tera vaada Buddhist faith you
know and in the case of a valley on
we're lucky in a sense that we have a
record about what an extremist she was
preserved by some comedians we'll give a
link below this video some people making
fun of her and have clips of what she
actually said in the course of
criticizing or making fun
but now if that disappears then then
what are we left with and then as I say
the the the next stage in the evolution
was just that it trained the alt-right
to present themselves with these complex
code words just as we take
Constantinople it's a fun way of saying
you know we might be in a chaotic
situation in a few years in Europe hey
everyone it's Cory McCarthy this is a
video I never expected to make and it is
certainly not fitting for this channel
but that said it had to be made this
once as some of you may be aware by now
someone who I will
on name but who is involved in a good
deal of vegan internal drama on YouTube
has released a video about me accusing
me of being a racist I didn't watch the
whole thing but I can speak clearly
about where I come from my thoughts for
clarification on this matter if you want
to find out more about this topic the
golden one share as many of my views so
I suggest you check out his channel as
he discusses these topics in far greater
detail as I tried to spread the good
word the sacred word of enlightenment on
Facebook and I have and I have 22,000
followers there but at the end of the
day this is not a victory for the people
who reported two-year-old picture I I am
NOT jesting
it's a two-year-old picture with a
pro-european message I don't have the
picture here right now but it was
nothing hateful or anything it was just
our Pro natural East European message
now youtubers partnered up with ADL to
silence right-wing channels if you watch
my videos and I'm not ultra cleared with
everything it's just that I can't say
everything outright the course yeah yet
again when I reminisce about all these
years and a tremendously hard work of
putting into everything I don't want to
jeopardize it by you know the need for
being ultra clear in all regards just as
really take Constantinople it's a fun
way of saying you know we might be in a
chaotic situation in a few years in
Europe that said I have no problem with
limited immigration so long as those
immigrating genuinely love the country
its people its culture and its values
they have to have a strong desire and
intent to assimilate to the best of
their ability I don't for one second
believe that anyone should be treated as
less due to their ethnicity nor do I
harbor even an ounce of hatred for
anyone I simply believe that everyone
has a right to cherish and preserve
their own homelands ethnicities and
cultures yes I am proud of my European
ancestry and I do not feel any white
guilt for goings on in the past by
people of the past I think the whole
concept of white peel is absolutely
absurd and as you can imagine
take issue with many of the thoughts
remoted by globalists and the mainstream
media I also do not believe that
multiculturalism works northern
importing hordes of people with vastly
different cultures to our own is
beneficial to either them or us in the
long run just look at the turmoil and
violence ever increasing in Europe and
the racial tensions we already have in
the United States as it is the the next
stage in the evolution was just that it
trained the alt-right to present
themselves with these complex code words
indirect forms of expression so on and
so forth that only makes it more
difficult for all of us to address you
know what their beliefs really are what
their assumptions really are even to
present facts even to carry on a
discussion or a debate where we really
get to you know the basis of what their
concerns are or what their goals are
what their what they're trying to
accomplish I mean ultimately in a
democracy no political claim can be
treated as unthinkable it takes
tremendous terrible patience to really
address the public's concerns I'll give
you a great example I mean you know the
collapse of the the World Trade Center
after September 11th a lot of people's
concerns about that are stupid and
ignorant and it takes tremendous
patience to set out an argument we look
at the facts of the architecture explain
what happened and why explain how this
is how this is possible even getting
into the technical details of how the
airplanes were hijacked but don't you
think that's an important role in a
democracy don't you think it's important
to explain to people how these things
were possible how they happened um
people are stupid and ignorant and it's
got to be the role of someone to educate
and engage the public and so our society
can roll ahead and become more
sophisticated and more cosmopolitan and
not retreat into more and more
self-righteous ignorance I guess I guess
that's really the fundamental concern I
have
it's not ignorant it's the overlap of
self-righteousness and ignorance it's
real it's really dangerous and as all
these people show its appealing it's
appealing to an audience so look how did
I end up having a conversation with
Brian Roth this is years and years ago I
would guess about six years ago five and
a half years ago I talked to this guy
via Skype and I'm sure I still have the
emails that led up to the conversation
if I wanted to figure out the exact date
once out Scott when I talked to Brian
Rua at that time he did not have a
single video on YouTube that had
anything to do with right-wing ideology
that had anything to do with Hitler he
did not have a single video on YouTube
to do with the Nazis there was no overt
indication at all of his fascination
with that kind of political extremism
none there was nothing overtly
anti-semitic however because I was a
scholar of Buddhism when I watched his
videos just about Buddhist philosophy I
could tell that he was using Nancy
sources I could tell I knew the source
material well enough so I mean it's
really hard to come up with a parallel
in Christianity but like if someone
really knew different trains of thought
in the interpretation of the Gospels and
they could identify Oh like you know
your interpretation is from this school
of thought you could tell I could tell
just from what he said about about
Buddhism at that time that he was on the
slippery slope into becoming an outright
fascist or Nazi that he was reading that
kind of that kind of material now I was
in a very strange situation when I
decided to reach out to him and talk to
him by by Skype Brian at that time he
openly said on his channel I think it
was a little bit vague I'm not
criticizing it for this but he vaguely
stood that he had recently been divorced
and moved to a new home and it was
obviously a period of transition he was
obviously you know kind of vulnerable
I think I think it's not unfair to say
that he was he was in danger of losing
his mind he looked like he was kind of
on the edge of a collapse or breakdown
and in the other hand I could see that
he was in part really sincere in
preaching Theravada Buddhism so I really
was an expert in tera vaada Buddhism as
much as much as any sane person was at
that time and I say that advisedly you
know I met and spoke to many of the
greatest scholars terrified of Buddhism
that were alive during my generation and
of course there were there were greater
scholars than myself what was rare was
to meet someone who had done the
scholarship and it remained sane and
detached and down-to-earth and honest
and it would actually answer questions
you had so I could give an example if
you want to talk about the history of
slavery in Buddhism good luck you talked
to one of those guys somebody's really
ideologically committed to tera vaada
Buddhism or someone who's just gone
crazy after being stuck this way for
years you are not gonna get a straighter
honest answer about the history of
slavery in the Buddhist religion where I
was someone who even if I was a less
accomplished scholar I'd done the
reading I've done the research and I
tell you the truth about something like
that even if the truth was embarrassing
to the history of religion I'll mention
also a once had a had a conversation
with a genuinely devout Buddhist monk a
Buddhist monk who even though I dislike
the guy personally I really do I can say
as a sincere compliment to him that he
really was a sincere monk and a sincere
scholar of the foot ISM he tried in his
way to live to live that life he tried
to walk the ancient narrow path and he
said to me one day we were in his
library in a monastery in Sri Lanka and
he said to me one day sitting in the
humble chair next to the bookshelf and
it's a small room full of books he said
to me you know I saw many of the
scholars he said most of the scholars
who study he put his philosophy they'd
go crazy and I'll always remember use
the phrase they lose their marbles and
he sat there laughing
just we're calling just thinking about
it was like you know he was recalling
the different scholars have put a semi
new you know over over decades I guess
and that they they've gone crazy and you
know of course there's a lot of evidence
for that I know from meeting some of us
people face-to-face but also if you read
their writing carefully even when it's
been edited sure a lot of the scholars
of Buddhism went crazy it was an
interesting wistful moment he was
sitting there reflecting on this but
this is how I replied without missing a
beat I leaned in and I said to him you
presume that they were not crazy before
they chose to become scholars of
Buddhist philosophy so they had a chat
about that because that's a different
kind of skepticism I have is how sane or
how crazy with these people before they
got started and yeah in this context we
could ask this about Brian Rula also
it's not so easy to say that he got
involved with Buddhism and went crazy
and it's not so he said he got involved
with Nazism in one crazy anyway I
decided this is again something like six
years ago I decided to reach out to the
guy and offer to speak to him by Skype
partly just because of that most simple
sympathetic thing I thought if our
positions were reversed I would really
value it if someone like that reached
out to me because here I was my position
was I'd already been a scholar of Pali
of tarapada put a summon at this
experience and I could recognize in him
the little bit of you know sincere work
and good intention he done but I could
also recognize that he was either going
crazy or really was crazy he'd gotten
divorced from his wife and so on it
seemed like he was in a difficult
transitional period in his life he could
probably use the help or at least using
the conversation so a god touched them
by email set up a Skype conversation and
we had this one long Skype call and the
issue of the extent to which he was
flirting with or reading nasi sources I
waited until about the middle of the
conversation so I didn't just confront
him with that I didn't just abruptly say
to him look are you secretly some kind
of
see but I did bring it up um one of the
interesting things about that
conversation you know he was formerly
married to a woman who was not white not
European he was he was married to this
woman which again given that the guy is
literally a neo-nazi he's literally a
pro-hitler neo-nazi who he literally
grows the moustache and everything he's
some facetious amidst photos this is a
little bit surprising but you know he
told me that you know he fell in love
with this woman and married her they
were together
I guess for years you know I forget and
that she was a spirit medium you know
she would channel spirits and she would
do these performances these rituals
involving ghosts and she earned her
money that way you know people paid a
significant amount of money for to do
these I know if you call them seances or
ghost channeling ceremonies and it was
obvious to me that part of the reason he
fell in love with her in part of their
relationship was that he really
respected this about her or you know he
also had some kind of spiritual
curiosity at least at the time when they
first got together as husband and wife
and you know we talked about the turning
point in his life where he really had to
admit to himself that this was a kind of
scam there was something you know this
was something ultimately fraudulent that
people were paying money for something
that was misleading or insincere around
real and I thought that was interesting
because we were having this conversation
in the context of him still being
committed to quite a lot of supernatural
and impossible stuff within Buddhism he
was still defending those beliefs and
then also he was reaching out for and
bringing in even crazier more more
ridiculous stuff and adding it to
Buddhism if you like so he at that time
had both YouTube videos and I think
website pages discussing his beliefs in
UFOs meaning space aliens and UFOs
discussing his belief in Sasquatch let
leprechauns like any anything like this
and he would try to construe that like
the belief in leprechauns was validated
by ancient Buddhist texts
and you know in the friendliest way
possible I confronted when that said
look why would you do this with this
just this discredits you as a scholar of
Buddhism and the ancient when the people
who wrote this ancient text wrote it you
know they couldn't possibly have been
thinking of the modern American idea of
a sasquatch so like nobody what are you
doing here and I was I was you know
politely enough challenging him on his
whole kind of supernatural approach to
those texts now you know a second
I'm ethnically Jewish it's somewhat
bizarre for me to reflect that after
that conversation I had with him and I
must be one of very very few people to
have challenged him on you know his view
of Buddhism I mean I know he spends time
with Buddhist monks he still leaves
lectures on Buddhist philosophy to this
day that shortly after that he got into
this downward spiral of alt-right
extremism he did an interview with a
valium the infamous neo-nazi who's been
mentioned here that's one of the things
he was most famous for I mean a valley
and had millions and millions of views
and then as soon as his name was
attached to her they did a series of
videos together not just one so he had
several videos with her appearing on his
channel and he interviewed her and so on
um you know he became notorious on the
internet for these you know Nancy
extremist views that he that he started
spouting I do have to wonder looking
back if my challenging him on the
supernatural hocus pocus aspects of
Buddhism at that time when he was
reflecting on his divorce in his
marriage and his disillusionment with
spirituality and ghosts to some extent a
wonder of that resulted in him trying to
reach out for something real reach out
for something more meaningful in his
life I've been talking a lot lately to
Faraday speaks Faraday speaks in the
YouTube channel the guy's real name is
Caleb Cain and you know Faraday has been
doing this work trying to rehabilitate
or chair
all right people people who believe in
these right-wing and sometimes racists
and I was anti-semitic ideals and you
know at the same time I think he
recognizes I think this because I've
talked about him I've talked about with
him in his opinion he recognizes that a
lot of people are reaching out for
something meaningful they're reaching
out for something real they're reaching
out for a way to make the world a better
place and it's tragic that this is what
they they kept on to they grab on to
this horrible conspiracy theory nonsense
but nevertheless you know you have to
recognize the intentions they're on a
really really basic level and then the
next element of it that's tragic
it's argue this with Faraday just a
couple days ago is that a lot of these
people the reason why their parents
don't intervene and don't say hey wait
stop you're going crazy the reason why
maybe their girlfriends or boyfriend's
don't intervene and say hey wait stuff
go crazy is that for many of them the
way they respond to making contact with
this extremist ideology is they get more
motivated with their health with fitness
they get motivated to start reading
history I mean you know stereotypically
all of a sudden they're interested in
history of the Roman Empire all of a
sudden they're interested in you know
more important nonfiction literature
about the history of Europe the history
of quote-unquote the West they get
interested in these kinds of things it's
very easy for the people surrounding
these ideologue the people surrounding
these true believers to observe their
first steps into an extremist cult as
positive rather than negative and of
course I think that's an interesting
contrast to how people might perceive
someone stepping into Buddhism or what
have you but there's no doubt that for a
lot of those people they find in that
ideology just like just like the
ideology of Jordan Peterson they find in
it's some kind of motivation some kind
of touch
to quit playing video games for many of
them quit watching pornography that's
always an issue they want to talk about
to get on a more or pure Tanika
self-disciplined lifestyle but also as
they say for them they start exercising
that part of their character that's
ultimately caring and concerned about
making the world a better place what I
hope is that for a lot of these people
it's a phase that they'll grow out of
when I look at the ideologies that have
come and gone during my lifetime I
remember being on the streets when the
the Occupy Wall Street protests were
happening I was married at that time you
know split up with the woman I was
married to I remember both of us were
there and we both said look this Occupy
Wall Street movement it's gonna come and
go in just a couple of years maybe a
couple months maybe a couple years
whatever we said them but this is this
is not gonna last and meanwhile there's
this other set of protests that we were
really interesting to like that were
going to there these protests were First
Nations people the indigenous people
Canada Native Americans
Korea's give way more there were these
other protests going on at the same time
like this struggle this political
problem this has already gone on for at
least a hundred years and this is still
going to be going on ten years from now
it's probably a lot of 50 years now 100
this is really important this is really
deep we could see the difference between
something evanescent and shallow
something really deep and durable there
in the same way I really don't think any
of the elements of all right right
current fashionable right-wing extremism
I don't think any of them are durable I
hope that the desire to make the world a
better place the desire to help and the
curiosity that led people into that
outright trap I hope that that will be
durable I hope that that will survive it
and I noticed that Brian Rula is crazy
and evil as he may be he seems to have
given up on that extremist ideology and
gone back to
trying to be some kind of Buddhist
preacher I know that a valiant as crazy
as she was she made statements on the
internet they were in written text form
explaining that she was no longer racist
she no longer believed in killing or
hating anybody she made a whole series
of statements about how she went through
a personal progression and she realized
that a lot of the things she believed
about the history of world war ii and
history of europe were wrong
she's probably probably both of them are
still crazy probably both of them are
still crazy but they may at least be
less dangerous and unfortunately with
the way internet censorship has changed
the public can't see that transformation
the erasure of the steps along the way
it makes it difficult to hold those
people to account
like if someone today and Vancouver is
wanting to check who is this guy giving
a lecture on Buddhism who is he really
what is it what's his political
background noise represent when you
google that now you're not gonna find
any that evidence the evidence is gone
it makes it harder to hold them to
account and I think it makes it
impossible for most regular people to
learn from their mistakes
[Music]